Getting Started

1) in terminal in folder you want to create app in, type 'npx create-next-app', follow prompts (not sure if you should allow typescript or eslint in project or not or if it's easy to retroactively add (I think you might just have to npm install it))
2) cd into that folder in terminal and type 'code .'
3) copy instructor's dependencis from his github (this is from april 2022, so not everything will be current -> eventually can update) and put into my package.json. In terminal, type 'npm install --legacy-peer-deps'.
4) set up a new repository on github (*no readme) and link this up to it using instructions in my github notes on computer
5) Now that you're linked up to github, in terminal, type 'npm run dev', command click 'localhost:3000' in terminal to open up in browser - make sure to comment out the stuff i have in this git commit ('got server running, had to comment out some stuff in index.js to get …
…it running bc not all dependencies from npx create next app we're going to use in this version and it was referencing them') in pages/index.js. This has to do with dependency issues in next.js v13 are we're in v12. Also, will need to restart server to get it to work **Note might have to put the below code in Head of Layout component later to be able to change the favicon. Also, not sure what the meta stuff does or if it's necessary:
        <meta name="description" content="Generated by create next app" />
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />
        <link rel="icon" href="/favicon.ico" />
6) set up sanity.io - click on link in his youtube description for where we're getting this info, but in terminal, stop server, then type 'npm install -g @sanity/cli'. Next, in terminal, type 'npm create sanity@latest -- --coupon javascriptmastery2022'. Follow prompts (i logged in using email, and **Make sure to use 'clean' project for template type and yes for public dataset configuration). Now, it seems like you have to cd into new sanity folder from folder you're currently in, but first I WOULD SUGGEST RENAMING FOLER TO 'SANITY_SOMETHING' bc that is our sanity studio. In terminal, you can now use commands like: 
npm run dev - to run Sanity Studio

Other helpful commands
sanity docs - to open the documentation in a browser
sanity manage - to open the project settings in a browser
sanity help - to explore the CLI manual

7) create our first schema, the product schema. I believe this the object for the data we will be storing in sanity.io and will allow us to be able to change data within sanity
8) create the rest of your schemas (did this in last commit)
9) create schema.js file (still in schemas folder) that links us up to our sanity desk (npm run dev while cd'd in sanity folder in terminal). COULDN'T get it working though, seems like everything is linked to index.js, so formatted it to work in index.js instead of schema.js. I think it works but may have messed up - look into if this is currently how you structure this. So not sure if schema.js does anything -> **NOTE - it looks like all you have to do if want to make edits to sanity desk is update the schema file of the desired thing you wanna update (e.g. add discount property or whatever to product.js in schema folder). Then you just stop server when cd'd in sanity folder and run npm run dev again. Not sure if this works exactly like this when already deployed though. Might have to undeploy or just push changes to github.
10) Now follow git commits instructions

Incorporating Tailwind

1) in terminal, had to type 'npm install -D tailwindcss postcss autoprefixer --legacy-peer-deps'
2) in terminal, type 'npx tailwindcss init -p'
3) Add the code that's in tailwind.config.cjs
4) changed to code below in tailwind.config.js and added top: 0px; to cart-item-qty class in globals.css bc cart item number was showing below cart without it - go to commit - 'check to see if tw was connected to app' to see what I did if I need to go back and change it. NOTE - if look under 'PROBLEMS' in terminal, it says there are some issues in globals.css (that's what those squiggly lines are), but it seems to be working 
  content: [
    "./pages/**/*.{js,ts,jsx,tsx}",
    "./components/**/*.{js,ts,jsx,tsx}",
  ],

What Files We'll Need for Sanity
- products (make sure to add category and featured boolean (for featured items) property)
- categories (make sure to add featured boolean property too)
- blogs


Sanity.io Notes
- to make changes to a schema(aka an object in sanity studio) -> it looks like all you have to do if want to make edits to sanity desk is update the schema file of the desired thing you wanna update (e.g. add discount property or whatever to product.js in schema folder). Then you just stop server when cd'd in sanity folder and run npm run dev again. Not sure if this works exactly like this when already deployed though. Might have to undeploy or just push changes to github.
- I believe the client.js file in the lib folder is what is connecting us to 



Deployment Notes

NOTE - **NOt sure what to do bc these are test keys - do I need to first make these live keys or whatever??
1. go to vercel.com
2. click on 'start deploying'
3. click on 'continue with github' (not sure what to do if already signed in). Follow prompts
*note - to add more repositories later, go to github -> settings -> applications -> vercel -> then add the repo
4. click 'import' on the repository you want to use
5. choose project name if you want to change it, but most importantly click on 'environment variables' and add what you have in .env to them (just put the variable name in name and its value in value). do this for each one. NOTE - **NOt sure what to do bc these are test keys - do I need to first make these live keys or whatever?? ALSO, under 'Build & Development Settings' in 'install commands' will have to override by putting 'npm install --legacy-peer-deps' (EVENTUALLY NEED TO FIX THIS ISSUE THOUGH JUST HAVE NO IDEA HOW TO DO IT - maybe need to update the sanity cli and next-sanityimage dependences and maybe more?? maybe see if the whole thing works if you just update all the packages??)
6. Once it says you're deployed to vercel, click on image of your website
NOTE - I THINK I'M GOING TO HAVE TO CHANGE FROM 'Hobby' TO 'pro' or 'enterprise' bc 'commercial' projects aka ecommerce sites are not allowed on 'hobby' plan (i think at least). ***Also, looks like they have prebuilt templates you can just use?

How to use sanity.io to add or delete items
1. in terminal, cd into sanity folder within project
*note - type 'sanity help' anytime you need commands for terminal
2. in terminal, type 'sanity deploy', follow prompts to name studio, it will deploy and give you a link
3. share link with whoever we want to be able to add/edit content
**MAKE SURE TO DO 'EMPTY CACHE AND HARD RELOAD' after making changes


Terminals that should be open to run app -

in main project folder, 'npm run dev', then split the screen, cd into sanity folder, 'npm run dev'
in another terminal tab, in entire project folder, use that to push to github